this is van this really a Lord
Rothschild variety or a variety Supra we
described in 1870s when the first
collectors went to see this area where
these plants grew in the kasnia hills
India they saw that from a distance the
entire trees line had a blue cast - it
was all these Vanda suriya's in flower
that gave it that color this particular
variety is a select form which with much
bigger flowers and very deep indigo blue
lip as you can see this plant is quite a
specimen it's one that we've used for
breeding many times to create new forms
by combining it with other ceilings we
have raised flowers are pretty large in
size being about four inches or so they
last about two or three months and they
tend to bloom twice a year once in the
spring around March or so and again in
October September October region easy
plant to grow can tolerate cold
temperatures in India where it rose when
the dry season hits these plants get
very almost shriveled and they can
withstand temperatures down to 15
degrees Fahrenheit as it's very cold
then when the rains come back they pump
up and flower again we don't grow them
to those extremes but we have grown them
as coldest in the 40s and they've done
just fine
the spikes emerge from between the leaf
axils as you can see here it's true with
all vanda's and they keep coming out on
either side as time goes on you can see
the past flowering spikes here they like
an open basket situation although they
can be grown in clay pots or plastic
pots with medium to large bark and
charcoal intermediate conditions cool
conditions warm conditions doesn't
matter so much but they don't like it
really hot all the time